Next up we have a line items that is responsible for vertical alignment.
Now before we can start testing out a line items properly with all its values.
One thing we're gonna have to do is set up some kind of height for our container because please understand
that currently what happens is the height of our container is dependent on the height of our items.
So I could set up any kind of properties with values.
As far as vertical alignment and well nothing is going to change because in fact our container has the
height of our items.
Now we can do it multiple ways.
I could set it up as height and 300 pixels and noticed right away our container got bigger.
I could also use the viewport values where we could go with height and you view height.
It's really up to us and doesn't really matter as long as you have some kind of fight.
And would you notice right away that again by default.
Behind the scenes we already have a line items set to stretch.
That's the reason why our items are stretching from the top of our container all the way to the bottom
of our container.
So if I'm gonna go with a line items and I'm gonna set it equal to stretch I'm gonna notice that our
layout did not change.
Because again that is the default behavior.
However we also have other values like for example flex start let's make up in paste that let's change
this.
Let's say flex start and what you're going to notice is that right now my boxes are aligned to the top
of the container.
That's the value for my flex start.
And you can probably already guess that if I'm gonna go with Flex and where do you think the boxes are
gonna be located.
Well they're gonna be all the way in the bottom correct.
Then we also have the center one.
Probably the most beautiful thing ever because you're noticing the pain that we have to do when we're
just dealing with the regular assess.
We have to go with some kind of hack or something like that.
In this case if we want to align something horizontally as long as we do have the height for our container
it is as easy as it gets.
Just go with the center and your content is going to be aligned vertically in the center which is just
beautiful.
If you ask me.
OK.
And then of course we have the baseline.
So let's cut and paste it and let me show you how the baseline is going to work.
Now initially you're going to think well wait a minute this is exactly the same how we had with Flex
start.
However there are some caveats.
So if we're going to head over to a Stiles and let's say for the box number three I'm going to increase
the font size so how my box number three and I'm going to go with font size of let's say sixty five
pixels.
What are you going to notice is that my box is when using the baseline one are aligned depending on
where the content is right.
If we go would stretch or I'm sorry.
Let's start.
So let me come on these guys out as well.
If we go would start in fact boxes are still going to be aligned depending on where the edge of the
boxes correct.
That's the reason when the box is bigger.
Now we can see that it is not aligned here in the bottom correctly because we're not aligning depending
where the content is we're aligning where the boxes start.
Now where would you use that.
Where would you use let's say baseline.
While most common thing is or one of the common things is when we have the now are correct we usually
have some kind of logo now a logo has a different size than rest of the items usually whereas the links
and you're not.
In order to show that better you know what why don't we grab the font size and had it here for the item
number one.
So our logo let's imagine this is gonna be our logo.
And these are all our links.
So what you would probably want to do is outline them in fact where your content is right.
So they are in fact in one line instead of having a logo sitting here and then your links sitting let's
say above the logo.
That's where you would use the baseline.
But again it is mostly your preference whatever you'd like.
You can also align them in the center.
It is really up to you.
Like so where we just align them here and center and that is also always your option.
So like I said we covered both of the properties one for justify content for horizontal alignment and
the other one for aligning items vertically which the name of a line items which essentially are going
to be your favorite legs box properties.
Now of course I can't guarantee that.
But most likely I'm telling you that you will have those as your favorite properties because they really
are going to simplify how you're setting up your layouts.